rbac: access control documentation (#50836)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/how-to/add_permissions.md

# Permissions

> This doc is for engineers who want to add permissions for features they want to protect using the Access Control System.

Reviewer: Should we mention this is internal permissions to distinguish from repository permissions?

Author: I'll add that. Thanks.

## Overview
The RBAC system is based on two concepts:
  * **Namespaces**: these refer to resources that are protected by the RBAC system.
  * **Actions**: these are operations that a user can perform in a given namespace.

The source of truth for the Access Control system is the [`schema.yaml`](https://sourcegraph.sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/internal/rbac/schema.yaml) file, which contains the list of namespaces and the actions available to each namespace.

## How it works

> When Sourcegraph starts, a [background job](https://sourcegraph.sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@8b4e1cb4374d1449c918f695c21d2c933c5a1d15/-/blob/cmd/frontend/internal/cli/serve_cmd.go?L205:24) that syncs the namespaces and actions into the `permissions` table in the database is kicked off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Sourcegraph starts, a [background job](https://sourcegraph.sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@8b4e1cb4374d1449c918f695c21d2c933c5a1d15/-/blob/cmd/frontend/internal/cli/serve_cmd.go?L205:24) is started that syncs the namespaces and actions into the `permissions` table in the database.
```

> Permissions are a combination of a namespace and an action available in that namespace. The background jobs removes permissions that are in the database but no longer referenced in the [`schema.yaml`](https://sourcegraph.sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/internal/rbac/schema.yaml) file, and adds permissions contained in the [`schema.yaml`](https://sourcegraph.sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/internal/rbac/schema.yaml) file but not in the database.

Reviewer: Should we call it a tuple or pair instead of combination?

Also, I think we would benefit from a better description of what the background job does. E.g. it removes actions and namespaces that are no longer referenced in schema.yaml.

It's also cringe to me that most of our configuration is json and this one is yaml.

Author: I like the tuple idea. I'll update this.

Regarding the configuration, I'll create that as an investigation for the [RBAC 2.0](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/49074) project.

Once the permissions are synced, they can be used anywhere in Sourcegraph to protect unauthorized access to resources.

## Adding Permissions
To add permissions for a new feature, follow these steps:

> 1. Add the namespace and action to [`schema.yaml`](https://sourcegraph.sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/internal/rbac/schema.yaml). Namespaces are unique.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the namespace and action to [`schema.yaml`](https://sourcegraph.sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/internal/rbac/schema.yaml). Namespace string must be unique.
```

2. Generate the access control constants with the command `sg gen`. This will generate access control constants for [Typescript](https://sourcegraph.sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@8b4e1cb/-/blob/client/web/src/rbac/constants.ts) and [Go](https://sourcegraph.sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@8b4e1cb4374d1449c918f695c21d2c933c5a1d15/-/blob/internal/rbac/constants.go).

> 3. Once this constants have been generated, you can protect any resource using the access control system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Once these constants have been generated, you can protect any resource using the access control system. 
```
